My mother always said Jehovah did nine and ten for all of us to look alike and those early days
We would work every house and the county like families white families any color
That school
That was pressure there being involved with the racial activity
We would hear about the problems and the issues
It would be in the news and you would know what was going on in the South
Some may wonder how is it that our people
That is Jehovah's Witnesses black and white
Could maintain such unity when the world around them was falling apart
grew up in central New York, Utica, New York. I remember in the King of
Ministry back in 1956 there were articles about serving where the need is great
They needed some of the black friends to serve in the South. I married my husband Earl McGee
June 2nd, 1956
When we were married brother T.J. Sullowing gave the talk at
Hallendale Convention on serving with the need is greater
He encouraged not only
Families, but he says new married couples and so we planned for it and he wrote the branch
We were assigned to Florida and then in 1962 we started in the circuit work and our first circuit was in Alabama
And it was not integrated
We served together
Edna and I did and the pioneer work by assignment the last assignment was by
The society assigning us to North Carolina and then there to the circuit work after the first circuit
Which was in the Carolinas and Georgia?
We were assigned to Gilead
We got married in April 23rd 1949
I've been full-time service 70 years for a while
I was assigned to a circuit 18 in Alabama
My first circuit assignment was in Mississippi
It had the reputation as the worst state in the Union for race relations
And then after we got there there were three civil rights workers who were killed in
Philadelphia, Mississippi, that was our circuit
So those were the things we had to deal with
We were busy in our ministry, so it didn't bother us very much
The black work, the black and the white work for white
So we just obeyed the customary law of staying segregated
Lots of movements were happening and people were, you know, very hostile
When there was a march or any tension, we were serving there in Alabama
We wouldn't go to the town on Saturday afternoon to do street witnessing
Because if there was a rally or something going on, we would just stay in the neighborhood
A lot of what they called back then freedom writers
People get on buses going south and people coming in to register borders
In fact, some of the civil rights organizations were set up in Mississippi and were in pretty strong
So as a result, they would think that because we were active in going door to door we could just incorporate
Civil rights issues and things like that into our work
One of our classmates and the 27th class was a black brother of fellow student
And we became very close friends there
After we left Gilead, we were going to our assignments
We stopped at a convention in Alabama
And the convention was segregated
One race on one side, one race on another
And it was very difficult, painful for us not to be able to
closely associate with our dear friend
So we got this talk show on the television
The circuit overseen I went also a Catholic priest and a Piscopal minister
So the Piscopal minister, the young minister has what we were doing about the marching
So I told him that we weren't doing anything about the marching
Well that's sort of a contrast, I'm black and these white
They were stopping their marching to help us priesthood into the kingdoms
So we weren't going to stop preaching good news into the kingdom to help them march
The brothers always were interested in each other
So if there was a black congregation and a white congregation
We had interest and fellow feeling for both
The rule was we were not to meet together
And we couldn't meet together, but we could talk to one another and we could visit one another
So I think there was great support on both sides
Black and white brothers back in those days
If we had a problem getting a facility for example
They'd have contacts and they could get certain things done
So basically we worked together
The congregation started integrating after certain civil rights laws
Repairs
We had a big meeting of all the elders and worked out the territory assignments
And whatever else was necessary to have integrated congregations
Some friends would feel and maybe rightly so at the time
That there would be some violence if we integrated
There probably was some kingdom always damage and things like that as a result
But the fact is there was integration going in other places in the schools
And things like that in the universities and colleges
And so it was obvious that if they could do it then we even more so
The process of integration was successful because it was under Jehovah's direction
Both black and white we had the same thing in common
We loved Jehovah
And despite us Jehovah got it done for us and brought us together
And we had been unified ever since
Everyone could see that we were united
One brother was working from door to door black and white
And the lady came to the door white
And she said she was happy to see this unity take place
She looked forward to it for a long time
We have formed with Jehovah's help by means of his Holy Spirit
A worldwide brotherhood granted they have their imperfections
But it is a brotherhood and something to be truly marveled at
The brothers began to feel what we knew was true
We were all one organization that began to feel it being to experience it
We loved Jehovah and we loved our brothers
So there you have it, how could you fail to have unity when Jehovah had drawn you together
Satan is the prime one to divide people
Jesus died for the whole world of mankind
So who would that exclude?
No one